SPEC.md, before:

# ARSON: A Restructured Object Notation

ARSON is JSON, with a little bit of sugar: Comments, Commas, and Tags.

> This is version 1 of the specification, dated 2022-12-19. This specification
is still being drafted, but is pretty much feature complete. Please contact
us if you're implementing a library and find something unclear.

A full example of ARSON:

```
{
    "numbers": +0123.0,       # Can have leading zeros
    "octal": 0o10,            # Oh, and comments too
    "hex": 0xFF,              # Numbers don't have to be decimal
    "binary": 0b1000_0001,    # and numbers can have _'s too

    "lists": [1,2,3,],        # Lists can have trailing commas

    "strings": "At least \x61 \u0061 and \U00000061 work now",
    "or": 'a string',         # Strings use either "" or ''.

    "records": {
        "a": 1,               # Records Must have unique keys
        "b": 2,               # and the order must be preserved, too
    },
}
```

Along with some sugar atop JSON, ARSON supports tagging literals to represent types outside of JSON:

- `@datetime "2017-11-22T23:32:07.100497Z"`, a tagged RFC 3339 datestamp
- `@duration 60` (a duration in seconds, float or int)
- `@base64 "...=="`, a base64 encoded bytestring
- `@set`, `@dict`, `@complex`, `@bytestring`

Types outside of the basic arson types (int, float, string, object, list) are optional parts of RSON, but every parser MUST be able to parse a file containing tagged literals.

# ARSON vs JSON:

## JSON in a nutshell:

 - A unicode text file (in utf-8), without a Byte Order Mark
 - Whitespace is `\t`, `\r`, `\n`, `\x20`
 - JSON document is either list, or object
 - Lists are `[]`, `[obj]`, `[ obj, obj ]`, ...
 - Objects: `{ "key": value}`, only string keys, order not preserved, duplicate handling undefined.
 - Built-ins: `true`, `false`, `null`
 - `"ucs-2 unicode strings"` with escapes `\" \\ \/ \b \f \n \r \t \uFFFF`, and no control codes unecaped.
 - floating point numbers (unary minus, no leading zeros, except for `0.xxx`)
 - No Comments
 - No Trailing commas in collections
 - Astral plane characters may need to be escaped using surrogate pairs
 - Integers may need to be represented as strings if longer than 53 bits

## ARSON in a Nutshell

 - File MUST be utf-8, not cesu-8/utf-16/utf-32, without surrogate pairs.
 - Use `#.... <end of line>` for comments
 - Byte Order Mark is treated as whitespace (along with `\x09`, `\x0a`, `\x0d`, `\x20`)
 - ARSON Document is any ARSON Object, (i.e `1` is a valid ARSON file).
 - Lists are `[]`, `[obj]`, `[obj,]`, `[obj, obj]` ... (trailing comma optional)
 - Records are `{"key": value}`, keys must be unique, order must be preserved. 
 - Built-ins: `true`, `false`, `null` (all case sensitive)
 - `"unicode strings"` with escapes `\" \\ \/ \b \f \n \r \t \uFFFF \UFFFFFFFF`, no control codes unecaped, and `''` can be used instead of `""`.
 - int/float numbers (unary plus or minus, allowleading zeros, hex, octal, and binary integer liters)
 - Tagged literals: `@name [1,2,3]` for any other type of value.

Errors are fatal. A record with duplicate keys, or a string too long, or a number to big to represent MUST cause the parse to fail outright.

Non-printable characters (or Control Codes) are defined as C0 and C1 blocks in unicode. This includes the tab character.

# ARSON Object Model and Syntax

ARSON has the following types of literals:

 - `null`, `true`, `false`
 - Numbers (Floating Point, and integer literals: decimal, binary, octal, hex)
 - Strings (using single or double quotes)
 - Lists
 - Records (a JSON object with ordering and without duplicate keys)
 - Tagged Literals

ARSON has a number of built-in tags:
 - `@object`, `@bool`, `@int`, `@float`, `@string`, `@list`, `@record`

As well as optional tags for other types:

 - `@bytestring`, or `@base64` for bytestrings
 - `@float "0x0p0"`, for C99 Hex Floating Point Literals
 - `@dict` for unordered key-value maps
 - `@set` for sets, `@complex` for complex numbers
 - `@datetime`, `@duration` for time as point or measurement.

Along with optional tags for fixed-width numerics:

 - Signed integers: `@i8`, `@i16`, `@i32`, `@i64`, `@i128` 
 - Unsigned integers: `@u8`, `@u16`, `@u32`, `@u64`, `@u128` 
 - Floating point: `@f8`, `@f16`, `@f32`, `@f64`, `@f128` 

# Standard RSON objects

## ARSON singletons (mandatory)

- `true`, `false`, `null`
- names are case sensitive and lowercase
- true/false can be tagged `@bool true`
- true, false, null can be tagged `@object`

## ARSON strings (mandatory): 

 - use either ''s or ""s
 - escape codepoints with `\xFF` or `\u00FF`, or `\UFFFFFFFF`  
 - `\b \n \r \t \f \\ \/ \"` plus `\'` too
 - no surrogate pairs allowed in strings, even when escaped
 - no unescaped unprintables/control chars (no raw tabs, no unescaped del, c0, or c1)
 - can be tagged `@string "test"` 
 - can be a tagged list `@string ["te", "st",]`

## ARSON numbers (mandatory):

 - allows unary minus, plus
 - allows leading zero
 - allows underscores between digits (except leading digits)
 - binary ints start with `0b`: `0b1010`
 - octal ints start with `0o`: `0o777`
 - hex ints start with `0x`: `0xFF` 
 - limits on size are implementation defined, parsers MAY reject numbers that are too big to represent.
 - can be sent as tagged numeric literal `@int 123` (not a tagged string)

## ARSON floating point numbers (mandatory):

 - floating point: `1.123e-10` `-0.0` `+0.0`  
 - allows unary minus, plus
 - allows leading zero
 - allows underscores between digits (except leading digits)
 - limits on size are implementation defined, parsers MAY reject numbers that are too big to represent.
 - parser must support special floating point values (nan, inf)
 - special floating point types can only be sent as tagged trings (nan, inf)
 - parser MUST ignore capitalization: NaN or nan,Inf,inf,+Inf,-Inf,+inf,-inf
 - only hex floats and special values can be sent as tagged string `@float "nan"`

## ARSON lists (mandatory):

 - use `[` and `]`
 - allow trailing commas
 - lists of same size and items are same
 - can be tagged `@list [1,2,3,]`

 Two keys are the same if

 - both strings and same codepoints (unnormalized)
 - same numerical value i.e `1` and `1.0` and `1.0e0` are the same key, `+0.0`, `-0.0` are the same key

Note: Semantics of `NaN` keys, or collections containing them are implementation defined.

## ARSON records (mandatory) 

 - akin to JSON objects, uses `{` and `}`
 - insertion order must be preserved
 - no duplicate keys: parser MUST reject
 - allow trailing commas
 - implementations MUST support string keys
 - records of same size and key-value pairs are same, ignoring order
 - can be tagged `@record {"a":1}`

 Two keys are the same if

 - both strings and same codepoints (unnormalized)
 - same numerical value i.e `1` and `1.0` and `1.0e0` are the same key, `+0.0`, `-0.0` are the same key
 
Note: Semantics of `NaN` keys, or collections containing them are implementation defined.

## ARSON tagged objects (mandatory):

 - contain a name and an untagged arson literal.
 - tagged objects do not nest, `@foo @bar {}` is an error.
 - space between tag name and object is *mandatory*, must not be tab or newline or bom
 - tag name is any ascii letter followed by letters, digits or `_`
 - parsers MAY support unicode tag names, but MUST support ascii ones
 - every type has a reserved tag name
 - `@int 1`, `@string "two"` are just `1` and `"two"`
 - parsers MAY support optional types but MUST support mandatory types in tagged form
 - parsers MAY reject unknown, or return a wrapped object 

# Optional ARSON types

## ARSON C99 float strings (optional, recommended):

 - floats can be sent as tagged strings
 - string can contain decimal or hexidecimal format strings
 - no underscores allowed in hexadecimal floats
 - special floating point types can only be sent as strings (nan, inf)
 - parser MUST ignore capitalization: NaN or nan,Inf,inf,+Inf,-Inf,+inf,-inf
 - hex floats are C99 style, sprintf('%a') format
 - `<sign>0x<hex mantissa>p<sign><decimal exponent>` or `...1x...` for subnormals.

## ARSON sets (optional, recommended):

 - `@set [1,2,3]`
 - always a tagged list
 - no duplicate items, same rules as records
 - ordering does not matter when comparing
 - equality rules are same as other collections
 - sort order is only defined for keys of the same type

## ARSON dicts (optional, recommended):

This is for compatibility with hash tables without insertion order preservation.

 - `@dict {"a":1}` 
 - keys must be emitted in lexical order, must round trip in same order.
 - keys must all be the same type: number or string 
 - no duplicate items, same rules as records
 - a `@dict` is equal to a record if it has same keys, ignoring order.
 - sort order is only defined for keys of the same type


## ARSON datetimes/periods (optional, recommended):

 - Datetimes are sent as tagged strings.
 - `@datetime "2017-11-22T23:32:07.100497Z"`
 - Periods are sent as tagged numbers.
 - `@duration 60` (in seconds, float or int)
 - Datetimes are in RFC 3339 format in UTC, (i.e 'Zulu time')
 - UTC MUST use `Z` suffix
 - Implementations SHOULD convert times to UTC, or reject them outright.

Note: local timestamps, or other timezone formats are not covered by this spec. They
may be added in future versions, likely via a different tag.

## ARSON bytestrings (optional, recommended):

 - bytestrings are arrays of bytes without an encoding
 - parser SHOULD return a bytestring type if possible
 - parsers MAY encode bytestrings using base64 `@base64 "...=="`
 - parsers MUST accept tagged strings too: `@bytestring "....\xff"` 
 - same escape as strings, but can't have `\u` `\U` escapes > 0xFF
 - like strings, C0, C1 must be escaped.
 - but parsers MUST escape all non-ascii chracters too

## ARSON complex numbers: (optional, recommended)

 - `@complex [0,1]` (real, imaginary)

## ARSON fixed width numerics (optional)

ARSON currently defines the following fixed width numeric types:

 - Signed integers: @i8, @i16, @i32, @i64, @i128
 - Unsigned integers: @u8, @u16, @u32, @u64, @u128

This allows numeric literals can be tagged with a desired width.

 - `@u8 255`
 - `@i8 -127`

As well as allowing an array of numeric literals to be tagged:

 - `@u8 [2,5,5]` is the same as `[@u8 2, @u8 5, @u8 5]`
 - `@i8 [-1,2,7]` is the same as `[@u8 -1, @u8 2, @u8 7]`

Tags with wider widths (256, 512, etc) are reserved for future use.

Implementations MUST error if the number does not fit in the given width, and MAY
choose to return a wider format than specified.

Note: The use of this tag is intended for binary formats of ARSON.

## Floating point fixed width types (reserved)

The tags @f8, @f16, @f32, @f64, @f128 are reserved for future use. These
will operate much like the fixed width integers, on both literal numbers
and lists of numbers.

 - `@f32 0.0`
 - `@f32 [0.0, -1.0, 1.0]` is the same as `[@f32 0.0, @f32 -1.0, @f32 1.0]`

These will also accept a string containing a C99 Hex Float or a special float
value.

Unfortunately, floats of small width (8, 16) are not rigorously defined, and floats of large widths (128) are not well supported. Therefore, implementations SHOULD error if the floats are too wide, but may choose to store a `f32` in a `f64`, for example.

# ARSON Tags

## Builtin/Reserved Tagged literals:

Pass throughs (i.e `@foo bar` is `bar`):

 - `@object` on any literal
 - `@bool` on true, or false (not strings)
 - `@int` on ints
 - `@float` on ints or floats
 - `@string` on strings
 - `@list` on lists
 - `@record` on records
 - `@u8`, `@i8` etc on ints
 - `@f32` etc on floats

Tags that transform the literal:

 - @float on strings (for C99 hex floats, including NaN, -Inf, +Inf)
 - @string on lists of strings (joins them into one string)
 - @dict on records
 - @duration on numbers (returns seconds)
 - @datetime on strings (utc timestamp)
 - @base64 on strings (into a bytesting)
 - @bytestring on strings (into a bytestring)
 - @set on lists 
 - @complex on lists
 - @u8, @i8 etc on lists of ints
 - `@f32` etc on lists of floats/strings

Reserved:

 - `@unknown`

This is a placeholder tag to represent missing data. Implementations
MUST reject this tag when parsing.

Any other use of a builtin tag is an error and MUST be rejected. I.e a `@dict` cannot be used
on strings, etc.

Note: Even if an RSON parser does not support the optional types, it SHOULD reject
invalid uses of these optional types.

# ARSON Test Vectors

## MUST parse
```
@object null
@bool true
false
0
@float 0.0
-0.0
"test-\x32-\u0032-\U00000032"
'test \" \''
[]
[1,]
{"a":"b",}
```

## MUST not parse

```
_1
0b0123
0o999
0xGHij
@set {}
@dict []
[,]
{"a"}
{"a":1, "a":2}
@object @object {}
"\uD800\uDD01"
```


# ARSON Grammar

Note: This is still being drafted, if this conflicts with the spec above, the spec is right.

```
arson_whitespace <--- (' ' | '\t' | '\r' | '\n' | '\uFEFF')*

newline <--- '\n' | end_of_file

arson_comment <---
    (arson_whitespace, '#', not(newline)*, newline)*,
    arson_whitespace

arson_document <---
    arson_comment, arson_value, arson_comment

arson_value <---
    ( '@', arson_tag, ' '*, arson_literal) | arson_literal
 
arson_tag <---
    range('a-z', 'A-Z'),
    (range('0-9', 'a-z', 'A-Z') | '_')*

arson_literal <---
    'true' | 'false' | 'null'
    arson_number | arson_string |
    arson_list | arson_ object

arson_number <---
    arson_hex_number | arson_octal_number |
    arson_binary_number | arson_decimal_number |
    arson_float_number

arson_hex_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?, '0x', range('0-9', 'A-F', 'a-f'),
    range('0-9', 'A-F', 'a-f','_')*

arson_octal_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?, '0o', range('0-7'),
    range('0-7','_')*

arson_binary_number <--
    ('+'|'-')?, '0b', range('0-1'),
    range('0-1','_')*

arson_decimal_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?,  range('0-9'),
    range('0-9','_')*

arson_float_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?,  range('0-9'), range('0-9','_')*,
    ( ".", range('0-9','_')* )?,
    ("e" | "E"), ('+'|'-')?, range('0-9','_') )?
    
arson_string <---
    ( "'", arson_single_quoted_string "'") |
    ( '"', arson_double_quoted_string, '"')

arson_single_quoted_string <--
    ( 
        not(range("\x00-\x1f", "\\", "\'", "\uD800-\uDFFF")) |
        arson_string_escape
    )*
    
arson_double_quoted_string <--
    ( 
        not(range('\x00-\x1f', '\\', '\"', "\uD800-\uDFFF")) |
        arson_string_escape
    )*

arson_string_escape <--
    ('\\', ("\""|"\\"|"/"|"b"|"f"|"n"|"r"|"t"|"'"|"\n")) |
    ('\\x', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){2}) |
    ('\\u', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){4}) |
    ('\\U', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){8})

arson_list <---
    '[', 
        arson_comment, 
        ( arson_value, 
            (arson_comment, ',', arson_comment, arson_value)*,
            arson_comment,
            (',', arson_comment)?
        )?,
    ']'

arson_object <---
    '{', 
        arson_comment, 
        ( arson_object_entry,
            (arson_comment, ',', arson_comment, arson_object_entry)*,
            arson_comment,
            (',', arson_comment)?
        )?,
    '}'

arson_object_entry <---
    arson_string, arson_comment, ':', arson_comment, arson_value
```

Commit message:

Making clear which parts of spec are reserved for later use

SPEC.md, after:

# ARSON: A Restructured Object Notation

ARSON is JSON, with a little bit of sugar: Comments, Commas, and Tags.

> This is a draft of version 1 of the specification, dated$ 2022-12-19. This specification
is still in progress, but is pretty much feature complete. Please contact
us if you're implementing a library and find something unclear.

A full example of ARSON:

```
{
    "numbers": +0123.0,       # Can have leading zeros
    "octal": 0o10,            # Oh, and comments too
    "hex": 0xFF,              # Numbers don't have to be decimal
    "binary": 0b1000_0001,    # and numbers can have _'s too

    "lists": [1,2,3,],        # Lists can have trailing commas

    "strings": "At least \x61 \u0061 and \U00000061 work now",
    "or": 'a string',         # Strings use either "" or ''.

    "records": {
        "a": 1,               # Records Must have unique keys
        "b": 2,               # and the order must be preserved, too
    },
}
```

Along with some sugar atop JSON, ARSON supports tagging literals to represent types outside of JSON:

- `@datetime "2017-11-22T23:32:07.100497Z"`, a tagged RFC 3339 datestamp
- `@duration 60` (a duration in seconds, float or int)
- `@base64 "...=="`, a base64 encoded bytestring
- `@set`, `@dict`, `@complex`, `@bytestring`

Types outside of the basic arson types (int, float, string, object, list) are optional parts of RSON, but every parser MUST be able to parse a file containing tagged literals.

# ARSON vs JSON:

## JSON in a nutshell:

 - A unicode text file (in utf-8), without a Byte Order Mark
 - Whitespace is `\t`, `\r`, `\n`, `\x20`
 - JSON document is either list, or object
 - Lists are `[]`, `[obj]`, `[ obj, obj ]`, ...
 - Objects: `{ "key": value}`, only string keys, order not preserved, duplicate handling undefined.
 - Built-ins: `true`, `false`, `null`
 - `"ucs-2 unicode strings"` with escapes `\" \\ \/ \b \f \n \r \t \uFFFF`, and no control codes unecaped.
 - floating point numbers (unary minus, no leading zeros, except for `0.xxx`)
 - No Comments
 - No Trailing commas in collections
 - Astral plane characters may need to be escaped using surrogate pairs
 - Integers may need to be represented as strings if longer than 53 bits

## ARSON in a Nutshell

 - File MUST be utf-8, not cesu-8/utf-16/utf-32, without surrogate pairs.
 - Use `#.... <end of line>` for comments
 - Byte Order Mark is treated as whitespace (along with `\x09`, `\x0a`, `\x0d`, `\x20`)
 - ARSON Document is any ARSON Object, (i.e `1` is a valid ARSON file).
 - Lists are `[]`, `[obj]`, `[obj,]`, `[obj, obj]` ... (trailing comma optional)
 - Records are `{"key": value}`, keys must be unique, order must be preserved. 
 - Built-ins: `true`, `false`, `null` (all case sensitive)
 - `"unicode strings"` with escapes `\" \\ \/ \b \f \n \r \t \uFFFF \UFFFFFFFF`, no control codes unecaped, and `''` can be used instead of `""`.
 - int/float numbers (unary plus or minus, allowleading zeros, hex, octal, and binary integer liters)
 - Tagged literals: `@name [1,2,3]` for any other type of value.

Errors are fatal. A record with duplicate keys, or a string too long, or a number to big to represent MUST cause the parse to fail outright.

Non-printable characters (or Control Codes) are defined as C0 and C1 blocks in unicode. This includes the tab character.

# ARSON Object Model and Syntax

ARSON has the following types of literals:

 - `null`, `true`, `false`
 - Numbers (Floating Point, and integer literals: decimal, binary, octal, hex)
 - Strings (using single or double quotes)
 - Lists
 - Records (a JSON object with ordering and without duplicate keys)
 - Tagged Literals

ARSON has a number of built-in tags:
 - `@object`, `@bool`, `@int`, `@float`, `@string`, `@list`, `@record`

As well as optional tags for other types:

 - `@bytestring`, or `@base64` for bytestrings
 - `@float "0x0p0"`, for C99 Hex Floating Point Literals
 - `@dict` for unordered key-value maps
 - `@set` for sets, `@complex` for complex numbers
 - `@datetime`, `@duration` for time as point or measurement.

Along with optional tags for fixed-width numerics:

 - Signed integers: `@i8`, `@i16`, `@i32`, `@i64`, `@i128` 
 - Unsigned integers: `@u8`, `@u16`, `@u32`, `@u64`, `@u128` 
 - Floating point: `@f8`, `@f16`, `@f32`, `@f64`, `@f128` 

# Standard RSON objects

## ARSON singletons (mandatory)

- `true`, `false`, `null`
- names are case sensitive and lowercase
- true/false can be tagged `@bool true`
- true, false, null can be tagged `@object`

## ARSON strings (mandatory): 

 - use either ''s or ""s
 - escape codepoints with `\xFF` or `\u00FF`, or `\UFFFFFFFF`  
 - `\b \n \r \t \f \\ \/ \"` plus `\'` too
 - no surrogate pairs allowed in strings, even when escaped
 - no unescaped unprintables/control chars (no raw tabs, no unescaped del, c0, or c1)
 - can be tagged `@string "test"` 
 - can be a tagged list `@string ["te", "st",]`

## ARSON numbers (mandatory):

 - allows unary minus, plus
 - allows leading zero
 - allows underscores between digits (except leading digits)
 - binary ints start with `0b`: `0b1010`
 - octal ints start with `0o`: `0o777`
 - hex ints start with `0x`: `0xFF` 
 - limits on size are implementation defined, parsers MAY reject numbers that are too big to represent.
 - can be sent as tagged numeric literal `@int 123` (not a tagged string)

## ARSON floating point numbers (mandatory):

 - floating point: `1.123e-10` `-0.0` `+0.0`  
 - allows unary minus, plus
 - allows leading zero
 - allows underscores between digits (except leading digits)
 - limits on size are implementation defined, parsers MAY reject numbers that are too big to represent.
 - parser must support special floating point values (nan, inf)
 - special floating point types can only be sent as tagged trings (nan, inf)
 - parser MUST ignore capitalization: NaN or nan,Inf,inf,+Inf,-Inf,+inf,-inf
 - only hex floats and special values can be sent as tagged string `@float "nan"`

## ARSON lists (mandatory):

 - use `[` and `]`
 - allow trailing commas
 - lists of same size and items are same
 - can be tagged `@list [1,2,3,]`

 Two keys are the same if

 - both strings and same codepoints (unnormalized)
 - same numerical value i.e `1` and `1.0` and `1.0e0` are the same key, `+0.0`, `-0.0` are the same key

Note: Semantics of `NaN` keys, or collections containing them are implementation defined.

## ARSON records (mandatory) 

 - akin to JSON objects, uses `{` and `}`
 - insertion order must be preserved
 - no duplicate keys: parser MUST reject
 - allow trailing commas
 - implementations MUST support string keys
 - records of same size and key-value pairs are same, ignoring order
 - can be tagged `@record {"a":1}`

 Two keys are the same if

 - both strings and same codepoints (unnormalized)
 - same numerical value i.e `1` and `1.0` and `1.0e0` are the same key, `+0.0`, `-0.0` are the same key
 
Note: Semantics of `NaN` keys, or collections containing them are implementation defined.

## ARSON tagged objects (mandatory):

 - contain a name and an untagged arson literal.
 - tagged objects do not nest, `@foo @bar {}` is an error.
 - space between tag name and object is *mandatory*, must not be tab or newline or bom
 - tag name is any ascii letter followed by letters, digits or `_`
 - parsers MAY support unicode tag names, but MUST support ascii ones
 - every type has a reserved tag name
 - `@int 1`, `@string "two"` are just `1` and `"two"`
 - parsers MAY support optional types but MUST support mandatory types in tagged form
 - parsers MAY reject unknown, or return a wrapped object 

# Optional ARSON types

## ARSON C99 float strings (optional, recommended):

 - floats can be sent as tagged strings
 - string can contain decimal or hexidecimal format strings
 - no underscores allowed in hexadecimal floats
 - special floating point types can only be sent as strings (nan, inf)
 - parser MUST ignore capitalization: NaN or nan,Inf,inf,+Inf,-Inf,+inf,-inf
 - hex floats are C99 style, sprintf('%a') format
 - `<sign>0x<hex mantissa>p<sign><decimal exponent>` or `...1x...` for subnormals.

## ARSON sets (optional, recommended):

 - `@set [1,2,3]`
 - always a tagged list
 - no duplicate items, same rules as records
 - ordering does not matter when comparing
 - equality rules are same as other collections
 - sort order is only defined for keys of the same type

## ARSON dicts (optional, recommended):

This is for compatibility with hash tables without insertion order preservation.

 - `@dict {"a":1}` 
 - keys must be emitted in lexical order, must round trip in same order.
 - keys must all be the same type: number or string 
 - no duplicate items, same rules as records
 - a `@dict` is equal to a record if it has same keys, ignoring order.
 - sort order is only defined for keys of the same type


## ARSON datetimes/periods (optional, recommended):

 - Datetimes are sent as tagged strings.
 - `@datetime "2017-11-22T23:32:07.100497Z"`
 - Periods are sent as tagged numbers.
 - `@duration 60` (in seconds, float or int)
 - Datetimes are in RFC 3339 format in UTC, (i.e 'Zulu time')
 - UTC MUST use `Z` suffix
 - Implementations SHOULD convert times to UTC, or reject them outright.

Note: local timestamps, or other timezone formats are not covered by this spec. They
may be added in future versions, likely via a different tag.

## ARSON bytestrings (optional, recommended):

 - bytestrings are arrays of bytes without an encoding
 - parser SHOULD return a bytestring type if possible
 - parsers MAY encode bytestrings using base64 `@base64 "...=="`
 - parsers MUST accept tagged strings too: `@bytestring "....\xff"` 
 - same escape as strings, but can't have `\u` `\U` escapes > 0xFF
 - like strings, C0, C1 must be escaped.
 - but parsers MUST escape all non-ascii chracters too

## ARSON complex numbers: (optional, recommended)

 - `@complex [0,1]` (real, imaginary)

## ARSON fixed width numerics (optional, reserved)

ARSON currently defines the following fixed width numeric types:

 - Signed integers: @i8, @i16, @i32, @i64, @i128
 - Unsigned integers: @u8, @u16, @u32, @u64, @u128

This allows numeric literals can be tagged with a desired width.

 - `@u8 255`
 - `@i8 -127`

As well as allowing an array of numeric literals to be tagged:

 - `@u8 [2,5,5]` is the same as `[@u8 2, @u8 5, @u8 5]`
 - `@i8 [-1,2,7]` is the same as `[@u8 -1, @u8 2, @u8 7]`

Tags with wider widths (256, 512, etc) are reserved for future use.

Implementations MUST error if the number does not fit in the given width, and MAY
choose to return a wider format than specified.

Note: The use of this tag is intended for binary formats of ARSON.

## Floating point fixed width types (reserved)

The tags @f8, @f16, @f32, @f64, @f128 are reserved for future use. These
will operate much like the fixed width integers, on both literal numbers
and lists of numbers.

 - `@f32 0.0`
 - `@f32 [0.0, -1.0, 1.0]` is the same as `[@f32 0.0, @f32 -1.0, @f32 1.0]`

These will also accept a string containing a C99 Hex Float or a special float
value.

Unfortunately, floats of small width (8, 16) are not rigorously defined, and floats of large widths (128) are not well supported. Therefore, implementations SHOULD error if the floats are too wide, but may choose to store a `f32` in a `f64`, for example.

Once again, the primary use of these tags is for binary formats.

# ARSON Tags

## Builtin/Reserved Tagged literals:

Pass throughs (i.e `@foo bar` is `bar`):

 - `@object` on any literal
 - `@bool` on true, or false (not strings)
 - `@int` on ints
 - `@float` on ints or floats
 - `@string` on strings
 - `@list` on lists
 - `@record` on records
 - `@u8`, `@i8` etc on ints
 - `@f32` etc on floats

Tags that transform the literal:

 - @float on strings (for C99 hex floats, including NaN, -Inf, +Inf)
 - @string on lists of strings (joins them into one string)
 - @dict on records
 - @duration on numbers (returns seconds)
 - @datetime on strings (utc timestamp)
 - @base64 on strings (into a bytesting)
 - @bytestring on strings (into a bytestring)
 - @set on lists 
 - @complex on lists
 - @u8, @i8 etc on lists of ints
 - `@f32` etc on lists of floats/strings

Reserved:

 - `@unknown`

This is a placeholder tag to represent missing data. Implementations
MUST reject this tag when parsing.

Any other use of a builtin tag is an error and MUST be rejected. I.e a `@dict` cannot be used
on strings, etc.

Note: Even if an RSON parser does not support the optional types, it SHOULD reject
invalid uses of these optional types.

# ARSON Test Vectors

## MUST parse
```
@object null
@bool true
false
0
@float 0.0
-0.0
"test-\x32-\u0032-\U00000032"
'test \" \''
[]
[1,]
{"a":"b",}
```

## MUST not parse

```
_1
0b0123
0o999
0xGHij
@set {}
@dict []
[,]
{"a"}
{"a":1, "a":2}
@object @object {}
"\uD800\uDD01"
```


# ARSON Grammar

Note: This is still being drafted, if this conflicts with the spec above, the spec is right.

```
arson_whitespace <--- (' ' | '\t' | '\r' | '\n' | '\uFEFF')*

newline <--- '\n' | end_of_file

arson_comment <---
    (arson_whitespace, '#', not(newline)*, newline)*,
    arson_whitespace

arson_document <---
    arson_comment, arson_value, arson_comment

arson_value <---
    ( '@', arson_tag, ' '*, arson_literal) | arson_literal
 
arson_tag <---
    range('a-z', 'A-Z'),
    (range('0-9', 'a-z', 'A-Z') | '_')*

arson_literal <---
    'true' | 'false' | 'null'
    arson_number | arson_string |
    arson_list | arson_ object

arson_number <---
    arson_hex_number | arson_octal_number |
    arson_binary_number | arson_decimal_number |
    arson_float_number

arson_hex_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?, '0x', range('0-9', 'A-F', 'a-f'),
    range('0-9', 'A-F', 'a-f','_')*

arson_octal_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?, '0o', range('0-7'),
    range('0-7','_')*

arson_binary_number <--
    ('+'|'-')?, '0b', range('0-1'),
    range('0-1','_')*

arson_decimal_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?,  range('0-9'),
    range('0-9','_')*

arson_float_number <---
    ('+'|'-')?,  range('0-9'), range('0-9','_')*,
    ( ".", range('0-9','_')* )?,
    ("e" | "E"), ('+'|'-')?, range('0-9','_') )?
    
arson_string <---
    ( "'", arson_single_quoted_string "'") |
    ( '"', arson_double_quoted_string, '"')

arson_single_quoted_string <--
    ( 
        not(range("\x00-\x1f", "\\", "\'", "\uD800-\uDFFF")) |
        arson_string_escape
    )*
    
arson_double_quoted_string <--
    ( 
        not(range('\x00-\x1f', '\\', '\"', "\uD800-\uDFFF")) |
        arson_string_escape
    )*

arson_string_escape <--
    ('\\', ("\""|"\\"|"/"|"b"|"f"|"n"|"r"|"t"|"'"|"\n")) |
    ('\\x', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){2}) |
    ('\\u', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){4}) |
    ('\\U', range("0-9", "a-f", "A-F"){8})

arson_list <---
    '[', 
        arson_comment, 
        ( arson_value, 
            (arson_comment, ',', arson_comment, arson_value)*,
            arson_comment,
            (',', arson_comment)?
        )?,
    ']'

arson_object <---
    '{', 
        arson_comment, 
        ( arson_object_entry,
            (arson_comment, ',', arson_comment, arson_object_entry)*,
            arson_comment,
            (',', arson_comment)?
        )?,
    '}'

arson_object_entry <---
    arson_string, arson_comment, ':', arson_comment, arson_value
```
